p8105_hw1_yl4362.md, before:

p8105\_hw1\_yl4362
================
Yiting Li
9/17/2020

This is the hw1 of yl4362\!

``` r
library(tidyverse)
```

    ## ── Attaching packages ─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────── tidyverse 1.3.0 ──

    ## ✓ ggplot2 3.3.2     ✓ purrr   0.3.4
    ## ✓ tibble  3.0.3     ✓ dplyr   1.0.2
    ## ✓ tidyr   1.1.2     ✓ stringr 1.4.0
    ## ✓ readr   1.3.1     ✓ forcats 0.5.0

    ## ── Conflicts ────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────── tidyverse_conflicts() ──
    ## x dplyr::filter() masks stats::filter()
    ## x dplyr::lag()    masks stats::lag()

# Problem 1

## Data frame

**The code chunk below creates a data frame for problem 1.**

``` r
prob1_df = tibble(
  samp = rnorm(10, mean = 0, sd=1),
  samp_gt_0 = samp > 0,
  char_vec = c("a", "b", "c", "d", "e", "f", "g", "h", "j", "i"),
  factor_vec = factor(c("low", "low", "high", "high", "middle", "middle", "low", "high", "middle", "high"))
)
```

**Take the mean of each variables**

``` r
mean(pull(prob1_df, samp))
```

    ## [1] 0.1500283

``` r
mean(pull(prob1_df, samp_gt_0))
```

    ## [1] 0.5

``` r
mean(pull(prob1_df, char_vec))
```

    ## Warning in mean.default(pull(prob1_df, char_vec)): argument is not numeric or
    ## logical: returning NA

    ## [1] NA

``` r
mean(pull(prob1_df, factor_vec))
```

    ## Warning in mean.default(pull(prob1_df, factor_vec)): argument is not numeric or
    ## logical: returning NA

    ## [1] NA

It works for numeric and logical vector because logical vector will be
automatically regarded as numeric (0,1). But it does not work for
character and factor.

**Apply `{r as.numeric}` to variables**

``` r
as.numeric(pull(prob1_df, samp))
as.numeric(pull(prob1_df, samp_gt_0))
as.numeric(pull(prob1_df, char_vec))
as.numeric(pull(prob1_df, factor_vec))
```

After applying `{r as.numeric}`, results of ‘samp’, ‘samp\_gt\_0’, and
‘factor\_vec’ were successfully converted to numeric values because
factor vector is used to refer to a qualitative relationship. But it
does not work for character vector because they are combinations of
letters.

It partly explains the results of take the mean attempt, becasue it
shows ‘samp’ can ‘samp\_gt\_0’ can be converted to numeric values.

Commit message:

convert the logical vector to other data types and calculate them

p8105_hw1_yl4362.md, after:

p8105\_hw1\_yl4362
================
Yiting Li
9/17/2020

This is the hw1 of yl4362\!

``` r
library(tidyverse)
```

    ## ── Attaching packages ─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────── tidyverse 1.3.0 ──

    ## ✓ ggplot2 3.3.2     ✓ purrr   0.3.4
    ## ✓ tibble  3.0.3     ✓ dplyr   1.0.2
    ## ✓ tidyr   1.1.2     ✓ stringr 1.4.0
    ## ✓ readr   1.3.1     ✓ forcats 0.5.0

    ## ── Conflicts ────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────── tidyverse_conflicts() ──
    ## x dplyr::filter() masks stats::filter()
    ## x dplyr::lag()    masks stats::lag()

# Problem 1

## Data frame

**The code chunk below creates a data frame for problem 1.**

``` r
prob1_df = tibble(
  samp = rnorm(10, mean = 0, sd=1),
  samp_gt_0 = samp > 0,
  char_vec = c("a", "b", "c", "d", "e", "f", "g", "h", "j", "i"),
  factor_vec = factor(c("low", "low", "high", "high", "middle", "middle", "low", "high", "middle", "high"))
)
```

**Take the mean of each variables**

``` r
mean(pull(prob1_df, samp))
```

    ## [1] -0.06347274

``` r
mean(pull(prob1_df, samp_gt_0))
```

    ## [1] 0.7

``` r
mean(pull(prob1_df, char_vec))
```

    ## Warning in mean.default(pull(prob1_df, char_vec)): argument is not numeric or
    ## logical: returning NA

    ## [1] NA

``` r
mean(pull(prob1_df, factor_vec))
```

    ## Warning in mean.default(pull(prob1_df, factor_vec)): argument is not numeric or
    ## logical: returning NA

    ## [1] NA

It works for numeric and logical vector because logical vector will be
automatically regarded as numeric (0,1). But it does not work for
character and factor.

**Apply `{r as.numeric}` to variables**

``` r
as.numeric(pull(prob1_df, samp))
as.numeric(pull(prob1_df, samp_gt_0))
as.numeric(pull(prob1_df, char_vec))
as.numeric(pull(prob1_df, factor_vec))
```

After applying `{r as.numeric}`, results of ‘samp’, ‘samp\_gt\_0’, and
‘factor\_vec’ were successfully converted to numeric values because
factor vector is used to refer to a qualitative relationship. But it
does not work for character vector because they are combinations of
letters.

It partly explains the results of take the mean attempt, becasue it
shows ‘samp’ can ‘samp\_gt\_0’ can be converted to numeric values.

## Convert the logical vector

**Convert the logical vector to other data types and calculate them**

``` r
as.numeric(pull(prob1_df, samp_gt_0))*pull(prob1_df, samp)
```

    ##  [1] 1.08951989 0.57423035 0.00000000 0.27224332 0.88867531 0.02260043
    ##  [7] 0.00000000 1.12130111 0.00000000 0.14917750

``` r
as.factor(pull(prob1_df, samp_gt_0))*pull(prob1_df, samp)
```

    ## Warning in Ops.factor(as.factor(pull(prob1_df, samp_gt_0)), pull(prob1_df, : '*'
    ## not meaningful for factors

    ##  [1] NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA

``` r
as.numeric(as.factor(pull(prob1_df, samp_gt_0)))*pull(prob1_df, samp)
```

    ##  [1]  2.17903978  1.14846069 -2.01968979  0.54448663  1.77735063  0.04520086
    ##  [7] -0.93863295  2.24260221 -1.79415260  0.29835500
